The Zipped archive MIRACL.ZIP contains all the source code for the latest 
version of MIRACL: a Multiprecision Integer and Rational Arithmetic C/C++ 
library. The full Manual is available in both MS Word (MANUAL.DOC) and 
Postscript format (MANUAL.ZIP).

This Portable C library implements a full implementation of Multiprecision
Arithmetic. In particular it includes all the primitives necessary to 
implement Number Theoretic based methods for Public Key Cryptography and 
Digital signature, such as Diffie Hellman, Elliptic curves, RSA and DSS. 
Indeed example programs implement many of these methods.    

Also programs are included to implement all modern Factoring 
algorithms - Brent-Pollard, Pollard p-1, p+1, Elliptic Curve, MPQS. Some 
ready-to-run PC executables are also included. Code contains conditional in-
line assembly support for 80x86 processors, but is fully portable.

Several free Windows Command Prompt executables are also available for 
download. In many case the associated main source code file is also available. 
Read the comments at the start of the source code for full instructions, or 
simply run the application without parameters. 

In particular read the comments at the start of SEA.CPP for instructions on 
how to download and run the free MUELLER/PROCESS/MODPOL/SEA applications, 
which implement the Schoof-Elkies-Atkin-Mueller algorithm for counting points 
on a GF(p) elliptic curve. 

The MIRACL library is Shareware and can be used freely for Academic, 
non-profit making or non-commercial use. Commercial Users must register.
 
The term "commercial use" means any for-profit use of the MIRACL library.
Any commercial use of MIRACL requires a license which may be obtained from
Shamus Software Ltd

Single user license 1,000 euro for first developer/workstation.
Per additional user 500 euro
Server license 5,000 euro
Updates are free.

LICENSE TYPES
Single user license
MIRACL is installed and used on one single machine, which may not be used as
a server.

Server license
MIRACL is installed and used on one server machine and there is no limit on
the number of clients.

When buying any kind of license, you have the right to install and to
develop your own programs using MIRACL. You are also allowed to sell the
binaries of your own programs that have been compiled using MIRACL. There
are no runtime royalties. All licenses are non-exclusive.

If you sell software that was developed using MIRACL, there is no
requirement to cite MIRACL.

Redistributing your copy of MIRACL to a third party is not allowed.
A commercial license for the installation and use of MIRACL is always given
for one machine. Installing or copying the software to another machine is
not allowed.

For more information contact mscott@shamus.ie .
 
Some Public-Domain PC executables that use the MIRACL library
are also included in this package.

The address for correspondence is:- 

Shamus Software Ltd,
4 Foster Place North
Ballybough
Dublin 3
Ireland

Contact: Michael Scott
Phone    (353) 1 7005537
FAX      (353) 1 7005442
EMAIL    mscott@shamus.ie
Webpage  http://www.shamus.ie

To access the software, download the file miracl.zip.

If using Windows decompress all files into a single DOS directory MIRACL

To build the standard library in this directory using the Microsoft compiler, 
first make sure that paths are set up correctly by running the Microsoft 
supplied batch files vcvars32 or vcvars64 (for 32-bit or 64-bit environments 
respectively), or vcvarsall <param> to set up a named environment

Then execute either ms32doit.bat or ms64doit.bat (for 32-bit or 64-bit builds resp.)


If using Linux, read the following carefully


------------------------------------------------
RedHat Linux 6.0 MIRACL i386 installation

Download the MIRACL.ZIP file, and save it into an otherwise empty MIRACL directory.

1. Unzip the MIRACL.ZIP file using the unix utility unzip

unzip -j -aa -L miracl.zip

The -j ignores the directory structure inside MIRACL.ZIP. The -aa converts all 
text files to Unix format, and -L ensures that all filenames are lower-case.


2. Perform a tailored build of the MIRACL library by opening an X-Term, and 
   typing

bash linux

   Alternatively if your system is 64-bit

bash linux64

3. All the MIRACL applications (except RATCALC) can be then be built, as 
   desired. Remember to link all C applications to the miracl.a library.
   C++ applications must be linked as well to one or more of big.o monty.o 
   elliptic.o crt.o flash.o object files etc. 
   Some applications (like factor.c) that require floating-point support 
   may also require -lm in the compile command line.

Make sure that your Linux PATH points to the current directory, so that 
exectables can be run.

Note that Linux already has (a rather pathetic) factor program. To avoid name 
clashes you might rename MIRACL's "factor" program to "facter", or somesuch.


------------------------------------------------


The manual is available in PostScript form as MANUAL.ZIP
and in MS Word format as MANUAL.DOC

The text file MIRACL_UPDATE.DOC describes the latest changes and additions

The files TIMINGS.DOC (MS Word) and TIMINGS.PS (Postscript) describe
how MIRACL achieves fast performance for 80x86 processors
when used to implement cryptographic algorithms.  

Latest Version - V5.5.4   Last updated August 2011

Earlier versions are available

MIRACL43.ZIP - Version 4.3
MIRACL45.ZIP - Version 4.5
MIRACL72.ZIP - Version 4.72
MIRACL86.ZIP - Version 4.85
MIRACL510.ZIP - Version 5.10
